# Human-Activity-Recognition
Human Activity Recognition (HAR) is the problem of predicting an individual’s actions, based on evidence of their gesture using in-built sensors. It plays a major role in distinct fields such as personal biometric signature, daily life monitoring, anti-crime securities, medical-related applications. Also, HAR can be used for patients having a mental disorder or disease such as Parkinson’s Disease Dementia to regularly monitor their activities and detect if any abnormal activities occur. These days, smart phones are well-resourced with leading processors and built-in sensors. This comes up with the possibility to unfold a new arena of data mining. Basically, HAR can be divided into three basic types: video-based HAR, sensor-based HAR, and radio-based HAR method. In this project, we have used the dataset accumulated by accelerometer sensors of smartphones. The dataset constitutes 1,098,207 elements along with six distinct activities: standing (4.4%), sitting (5.5%), walking (38.6%), jogging (31.2%), walking downstairs (9.1%), and walking upstairs (11.2%). It is recorded at a sampling rate of 20Hz. Further, preprocessing of this data was done which consist of segmentation andm feature extraction. Segmentation is executed by using windowing approach. We have used overlapping windowing approach in this work accompanied by a window size of 250ms along with overlapping of 25%, which is utilized to extract time domain features. Five-time domain features namely root mean square (RMS), mean absolute value (MAV), variance, skewness, along with kurtosis were extracted. Afterwards, Numerous machine learning classifiers such as k-nearest neighbors, linear discriminant analysis, bagging classifier, gradient boosting classifier, decision tree, random forest, and support vector machine using three different kernels were practiced and its effect were examined on the basis of accuracy, recall, precision and F-score. The outcomes exhibit that random forest with 5-fold cross-validation imparts the highest accuracy (92.71%) in recognition of human activitie
